# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Multiplayer support** - There is no way to play the game with/against other people, which limits replayability and overall enjoyability.
* **Control mapping** - There is no way to re-assign controls in the game, this limits the player as they can not set certain controls to whatever they would prefer.
* **Realtime map generation** - There is only one piece of terrain in the main map, and when you reach the end, no more are generated.
* **Graphics** - Currently, the graphics are very low poly and aren't complex or realistic at all.
* **Settings** - There aren't settings that the player can access in the game, this limits the player to only being able to play with the hard-coded settings.

## Maintenance

I have separate strategies for future maintenance depending on whether or not I decide to expand the project in the future, adding more features. I will compare each approach accordingly and assess which would be the most sensible course of action to take.

### Current size

With the current amount of features in the game and given the overall complexity of the codebase, it should be relatively easy to maintain. Any current semi-serious bugs would be fixed, however, I wouldn't address any of the [#current-limitations-of-project](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md#current-limitations-of-project "mention"). I would do further testing on the project to ensure that it was ready for a stable release.

Assuming that the codebase stays the same size, I should be able to maintain the game singlehandedly. Hosting can be achieved using Github Pages, a free-to-use hosting service that integrates easily with Github, which is where my code is already hosted.

## Future Development

### Short Term Plan

#### Bug fixes

Before I do any further development, I need to fix some current bugs/problems with the current game. Even minor issues need to be fixed in order for my game to have the polished feel that I'm looking for. Below is a list of issues/bugs that either I have found or that were highlighted to me during peer review.

* _The car is able to fall off the edge of the map:_ To fix this, I would either add an invisible border around the edge of the world or allow the car to teleport back to the top of the map if it falls off the edge.
* _The parameters of the car and terrain are not ideal:_ I could try out new parameters and see which feels the most natural.
* _On slower machines, vehicle collision is inaccurate:_ Improving the efficiency of algorithms could allow slower machines to run faster which in turn would mean that they are able to make more accurate calculations.
* _If the player wants to restart the game, they have to reload the entire page in the web browser:_ I could add a reset button to the menu

#### Change physics engine

It's possible that I could change the physics engine from what I'm currently using (Cannon-ES) to something that integrates a little smoother with my 3d renderer (Three.JS). While this could improve the performance of the game and also make it easier to develop, effecting the changes would take quite a bit of extra development work and could introduce new bugs to the game - It seems like this would be an option for further development.

### Long Term Plan

#### Current limitations

* **Multiplayer support** - This limitation will be addressed by setting up a server and having players' respective game clients interact via web-sockets.
* **Control mapping** - This limitation will be addressed by adding controls settings to both the main menu and the pause menu of the game.
* **Realtime map generation** - This limitation will be addressed by rendering in (and simulating) more parts of the map as the player's car approaches a certain chunk.
* **Graphics** - This limitation will be addressed by improving the game's assets and rendering.
* **Settings** - This limitation will be addressed by adding more menus.

#### Multiplayer support

Because of time constraints also touched on in [4.1](4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md#criterion-22), I never got round to developing a multiplayer aspect or multiplayer capabilities for the game. Despite this, I did get round to doing much of the planning involved with implementing multiplayer.

I intend to set up a peer-to-peer system wherein players will connect to multiple other players through their browser. Each player launches their own game on their own computer, the client would then connect to the other clients via web-sockets, meaning that they could transmit realtime data about their position to each other. The other clients would receive all this data and then render/simulate the car in realtime.

This change would introduce a great deal of new variety to the game and would increase the enjoyability of the game massively.

#### Control mapping

Instead of simply having to play with the control scheme that I initially implemented, players should be able to choose what controls they want and be able to adjust them whenever they want.

This feature would be implemented into one of the game's menus, behind a new button labelled "controls". The player will be able to bind their controls to whatever they want. Preferably the control scheme should also be stored in cookies so that the player does not have to enter the same control scheme again after reloading the game, however this would take more time to develop.

This would help accessibility and mean that players are able to be more comfortable when they play the game.

#### Realtime map generation

Currently, to make the game run smoother, the player only has access to a relatively small area of land on which they can drive. With procedural generation, the system I originally implemented to handle terrain generation, chunk-based rendering can be used to expand the map size (theoretically infinitely) without also increasing loading times/lag/resources needed.

To implement chunk-based rendering, I would make it so that when the player's vehicle gets within a certain distance of a new 'chunk' it would render and simulate. Similarly, if the vehicle leaves the range of another chunk, it should de-render and the game should stop simulating its physics - this is to save resources and not render potentially thousands of unused particles.

This would increase the playability of the game by allowing the player to be able to explore more in-game territory.
