# 1.1 Problem Identification

In the past 1-2 years, during the COVID-19 Pandemics, there have been multiple lockdowns across countries all over the world. While these lockdowns were effective in preventing the spread of Coronavirus, they have caused adverse effects to people's mental health - especially including children [(Kontoangelos, Economou and Papageorgiou, 2020)](../reference-list.md). [von der Heiden et al (2019)](../reference-list.md) suggests that games are used by people with poorer mental health as a means of 'escaping' from the real world and as a way to alleviate stress and other negative mental health symptoms. One of the most common issues that people were using videogames for was to help with boredom. My game will aim to help with this issue.

Another way that videogames are able to reduce negative effects on mental health is via the use of multiplayer capabilities which have been shown to reduce stress in gamers [(Roy and Ferguson, 2016)](../reference-list.md). In the study, stress levels were seen to have reduced evenly whether the game was co-operative or competitive. And while both game styles were shown to increase overall impression of teammates, competitive was less effective at doing so.

One of the oldest and most popular genres of videogame is the platformer. With the Mario franchise being the 3rd highest grossing video game franchise [(Puckett, 2021)](../reference-list.md), and with one of its earliest platformer games _Super Mario Bros._ being the 6th best selling video game of all time [(HP, 2021)](../reference-list.md), it is easy to see that platformer games similar to the Mario franchise's have been loved by many different subsections of gamers for a long time. They still remain one of the most popular videogame genres with recent titles such as _Hollow Knight_, C_uphead_ and _Fall_ G_uys_ having been released all within the last 5 years.

As the genre of platformer is a loose term, there is a lot of variance available between different platformer games. For instance, the game mechanics present in _Cuphead_ are wildly different from a game like _Super Mario Bros_ **\[need some evidence here]**_._ One subgenre that I feel is underrepresented is the 3d puzzle subgenre. It keeps all the basic features of a platformer while adding more gameplay features and the 3d experience helping to immerse the player further into the world.

Another problem identified is that, due to the recent chip shortage, technology's cost has skyrocketed up to 30% in some areas of the market [(Knight, 2021)](../reference-list.md). This has led to people not being able to afford the higher-end technology that they used to be able to afford. One effect of this is that people are not able to enjoy games that require a lot fo computer resources in order to be run; this has led to a rise in popularity for simpler games that are a a lot easier to run using cheaper, lower-end tech.

In order to solve these problems, I will make a game that is a 3d multiplayer puzzle platformer. It will have minimalist style as to reduce the amount of resources that would be required to run the game. The multiplayer aspect will help to keep the game interesting and will help to reduce the stress of the user. The puzzles will introduce a way to make the game more in-depth without adding features that could decrease performance or enjoyability.

My game will be free to play and available to download online for both mobile and for PC. This is so that as many people as possible will be able to play the game without having to worry about how much the game costs. I plan to make the multiplayer cross-play so that people will be able to play with their friends without having to have the same system - it could cost extra money if they did not already have compatible systems.



