# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Because the goal of my game is not to create the most accurate driving simulator possible, I will abstract out a lot of the detail necessary when driving in real life. This will also help to make the game as easy to learn as possible for new players and younger children that are new to the game.

* Controls for the car will be simplified and I will ignore some important real life aspects of the car such as gear shifting, headlights and the handbrake. This will mean that players can focus less on the less exciting aspects of driving and can put more of their focus on the fun parts that are important to the racing.
* The car models will be simplified so that less time and fewer resources are used when rendering the game. This can help to reduce the stress on the computer/mobile device that is running the game and will therefore mean that lower spec devices will be able to run the game better than they would have.
* The map will not be fixed and will most likely be generated using Perlin noise or a similar method. This means that I do not have to spend important development time designing a map in a 3d modelling software like Blender. The generated map will also be simpler and easier to render than a designed map and will therefore increase performance of the game.

## Thinking Ahead

In order to minimise the amount of backtracking and retrospective changing that I will have to do, it is important that I plan the game sufficiently before starting development. If I do not, it could lead to me wasting time developing features that I will end up removing. Thinking ahead will also help me to have an idea of where I want my game to end up, this can be useful when developing because I will have a clear idea of what to implement into the game without having to put unnecessary thought into things other than development.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

After having abstracted away as much unnecessary detail as possible, I will then break down each remaining problem into small, manageable pieces that will be easy to complete in smaller amounts of time than if they were all bundled into one large problem. Using the object system in three.js will allow me to easily break down large features into smaller individual problems that will be easier to solve. The use of unit-testing is something that I will also include in my project. It is used in the real world by developers to track which ares of their code are causing particular errors. This would be useful for my project to decrease the time I spend debugging which would then increase the amount of time I have to develop more features in my project.

## Thinking Logically

Thinking logically consists of deciding what to do with the controls that the player inputs. The game must be able to respond to these in a logical way that the player would expect i.e if they input the controls for the car's movements the car should move in the way they expect.

* The car must have realistic movement that aligns with the control scheme that my game follows. The player must also be aware of this control scheme so that the way that the car moves makes sense to them.
* The game must be able to detect collisions between the player's car and either other cars or the ground and other surroundings.
* The game needs to be able to save the player's process such as high scores on circuits and total distance traveled in the main world.
* When the player is driving on a circuit, the game will need to time the player and monitor when they cross the start/finish line.

## Thinking Concurrently

While playing the game, many features will need to be run concurrently.

